Ledger - Field Definitions

The purpose of this document is to define content, format and usage of key data fields.

Currency
Identified by the ISO currency code (3-digits). Most currencies have 'cents' like Dollar and Euro. In this case the
currency has a precision of 2 (= 2 decimals) like USD 5.12. Japanese Yen are an exception; they have a precision of 0!
The precision is entered with the currency. The first currency entered is the 'home currency' . The precision of the
home currency is also entered into the Defaults screen.

Precision
The precision for all currencies to be used and the default precision need to be entered into the system.
The precision determines how currencies are rounded and formatted and thus affect directly the data being entered into
the accounting part of the system.
All data entered into accounting tables is rounded with the default precision!

Part Selling Price and Last Cost
The selling price and last cost of a part may have a higher precision than the currency e.g. currency = EUR,
last cost = 1.2245 Euro, selling price = 3.2654 Euro. This makes it possible to record costs correctly for low cost/price
parts.
The maximum number of decimals is control by the 'Max Price Decimals' field on the System Defaults screen. This value is
set automatically to 2 - as (almost) all currencies have a precision of 2. Set it to higher values to allow a higher
precision.
This value does NOT affect the values posted to the accounting tables.
Example: PO Order for 7 pc @ 1.4412 Euros = 10.0884 Euros -> but this gets rounded to 10.09 Euros (and posted to Accounts Payable).
         If Max Price Decimals is 4 then last costs are: 1.4414 (exact value would be: 1.4414285).

Credit limit
Credit limit and remaining credit limit is always calculated in the home currency. Amounts are rounded with the
Default precision.
Calculation: ( sum(invoices) - sum(payments) ) - current_order_value

sellprice
price the item was sold t a customer. The sellprice is in home currency.
Calculation: unitprice * (1 - discount), rounded to maxpricedecimals

itemtotal
the total price for a line item. Itemtotal is in document currency i.e. home currency or foreign currency
Calculation: sellprice * qty, rounded to the currency precision

Invoices
amount: invoiced amount (in table ap)
netamount = amount - tax
tax (in table invoicetax)

paid: amount paid (in table ap)

disount per item: reduces the itemtotal

overall cash discount (for quick payment): reduces AP but not the tax!

line item discount: changes the lineitem total and the total amount of tax for the item

FXgain/FXloss: arise if exchangerates in invoice and in payment are different
